How to get list of values from dict.md (#109)
arungudelli/python.shiksha: content/en/tips/How can I get list of values from dict.md

---
title: "How to get list of values from dictionary"
description: "Learn how to get list of values from dictionary"
date: "2023-02-13T04:15:05+09:00"
draft: false
author: "tribhuvan0"
---

## Introduction

In this article we will be talking about how to get the values of a dictionary in python in a separate list. 

## Methods to create a 2-D list in Python
There are various ways to handle this task. So, let’s dive into the solutions 

### Method 1: Using values() function

> We can use a dictionary.values() function to get the values from the dictionary and then apply `list()` method 

Reviewer: `dictionary.values()` is a method and `list()` is function.

```suggestion
We can use the dictionary.values() method to get the values from the dictionary and then apply `list()` function. 
```

> to store all the values in a list. For example:- 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To store all the values in a list. For example :
```

```python
# create a dictionary 
dict_new = {'1': 'python', '2': 'shiksha', 
         '3': 'machine', '4': 'learning'} 

# get list of values 
list(dict_new.values()) 
```

Output:
```
[‘python’,’shiksha’,’machine’,’learning’] 
```

### Method 2: Using single asterisk(*) and values() function 

> We can use dictionary.values() function to get all the values of the dictionary from key:value pairs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can use the dictionary.values() method to get all the values from the dictionary.
```

> `*`operator is used to get only values rather than dictionary values. For example:- 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`*` operator is used to get only values rather than dictionary values. For example :
```

```python
# create a dictionary 
dict_new = {'1': 'python', '2': 'shiksha', 
         '3': 'machine', '4': 'learning'} 

# get list of values 
[*dict_new.values()] )
```

Output:
```
[‘python’,’shiksha’,’machine’,’learning’] 
```
### Method 3: Using a `for` loop to get values 

> In this method we can take a for loop to iterate over the dictionary elements one by one and append 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this method we can use a for loop to iterate over each of the dictionary elements one by one and append 
```

> all the values to a empty list one by one. For example:- 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all the values to an empty list. For example :
```

```python
# create a dictionary 
dict_new = {'1': 'python', '2': 'shiksha', 
        '3': 'machine', '4': 'learning'} 

# get list of values 
value = [] 
For i in dict_new: 
   value.append(dict_new[i]) 
Print(value) 
```

Output:
```

> [‘python’,’shiksha’,’machine’,’learning’] 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[‘python’, ’shiksha’, ’machine’, ’learning’] 
```

```

> ### Method 4: Using list comprehension 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Method 4: Using the list comprehension 
```

> It is most similar to the above method. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is similar to the above method. 
```

> The only difference is that here we can perform the operations of `for` loop in one single line. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only difference is that here we can perform the operations of `for` loop in a single line. 
```

> It makes the code look cleaner. For example:- 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It makes the code look cleaner. For example :
```

```python
# create a dictionary 
dict_new = {'1': 'python', '2': 'shiksha', 
        '3': 'machine', '4': 'learning'} 
        
# get list of values 
[dict_new[i] for i in dict_new] 
```
Output:
```

> [‘python’,’shiksha’,’machine’,’learning’] 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[‘python’, ’shiksha’, ’machine’, ’learning’] 
```

```

> We have learnt **four** methods of getting a list of values from dictionary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have learnt **four** methods of getting the list of values from a dictionary
```

But which method is effective ?

> Well , for smaller dictionaries * operator is faster, but for large dictionaries list() method works slightly better. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Well, for smaller dictionaries `*` operator is faster, but for large dictionaries the list() function works slightly better. 
```

## Conclusion

> In this article, we briefly discussed about the various methods that can be used to create a list of dictionary values in python and we also discussed about the most **effective** method for achieving this result. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this article, we briefly discussed about the various methods that can be used to create a list of dictionary values in python and we also discussed about the **effective** method(s) for achieving this result. 
```
